[Docs] Add user level documentation for Expressions (#11990)
KratosMultiphysics/Kratos: docs/pages/Kratos/Expressions/Utilities/Abs.md

---
title: Abs
keywords: 
tags: [abs, expression]
sidebar: kratos_expressions
summary: 
---

## Introduction

> This computes absolute value of each component of the given expression. Assume the input expression is given by $$\underline{\mathbb{u}} = \left\lbrace u_{ij},  \forall (i,j)\in\left[0, M\right)\times\left[0, N\right)\right\rbrace$$ where $$i^{th}$$ entity's $$j^{th}$$ component is represented by $$u_{ij}$$ with $$i\in \left[0, M\right)$$ for each entity and $$j\in \left[0, N\right)$$ for each component in each entity. Following equation illustrates the formulation of the resulting expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This computes the componentwise absolute value of the given expression. Assume the input expression is given by $$\underline{\mathbf{u}} = \left\lbrace u_{ij},  \forall (i,j)\in\left[0, M\right)\times\left[0, N\right)\right\rbrace$$ where the $$i^{th}$$ entity's $$j^{th}$$ component is represented by $$u_{ij}$$. The following equation illustrates the formulation of the resulting expression.
```

Author: done :)

> <p align="center">$$ Abs\left(\underline{\mathbb{u}}\right) = \left\lbrace \left|u_{ij}\right|,  \forall (i,j)\in\left[0, M\right)\times\left[0, N\right)\right\rbrace$$</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p align="center">$$ abs\left(\underline{\mathbf{u}}\right) = \left\lbrace \left|u_{ij}\right|,  \forall (i,j)\in\left[0, M\right)\times\left[0, N\right)\right\rbrace$$</p>
```

Author: done :)

abs_nodal_expression = Kratos.Expression.Utils.Abs(nodal_expression)

# now write the absolute value for checking to the ACCELERATION
Kratos.Expression.VariableExpressionIO.Write(abs_nodal_expression, Kratos.ACCELERATION, False)

# now printing
for node in model_part.Nodes:
    velocity = node.GetValue(Kratos.VELOCITY)
    acceleration = node.GetValue(Kratos.ACCELERATION)

    print(f"node_id: {node.Id}, velocity=[{velocity[0]}, {velocity[1]}, {velocity[2]}], acceleration = [{acceleration[0]}, {acceleration[1]}, {acceleration[2]}]")
```

Expected output:
```bash
node_id: 1, velocity=[-1.0, -2.0, -3.0], acceleration = [1.0, 2.0, 3.0]
node_id: 2, velocity=[-4.0, -5.0, -6.0], acceleration = [4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
node_id: 3, velocity=[-7.0, -8.0, -9.0], acceleration = [7.0, 8.0, 9.0]
 |  /           |                  
 ' /   __| _` | __|  _ \   __|    
 . \  |   (   | |   (   |\__ \  
_|\_\_|  \__,_|\__|\___/ ____/
           Multi-Physics 9.4."3"-docs/expression_documentation-6de5f1a499-Release-x86_64
           Compiled for GNU/Linux and Python3.11 with GCC-13.2
Compiled with threading and MPI support.
Maximum number of threads: 30.

> Running without MPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 |  /           |                  
 ' /   __| _` | __|  _ \   __|    
 . \  |   (   | |   (   |\__ \  
_|\_\_|  \__,_|\__|\___/ ____/
           Multi-Physics 9.4."3"-docs/expression_documentation-6de5f1a499-Release-x86_64
           Compiled for GNU/Linux and Python3.11 with GCC-13.2
Compiled with threading and MPI support.
Maximum number of threads: 30.
Running without MPI.
node_id: 1, velocity=[-1.0, -2.0, -3.0], acceleration = [1.0, 2.0, 3.0]
node_id: 2, velocity=[-4.0, -5.0, -6.0], acceleration = [4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
node_id: 3, velocity=[-7.0, -8.0, -9.0], acceleration = [7.0, 8.0, 9.0]
```

Author: fixed :)

Kratos.Expression.VariableExpressionIO.Read(nodal_expression, Kratos.VELOCITY, False)

norm_inf_nodal_expression = Kratos.Expression.Utils.EntityMax(Kratos.Expression.Utils.Abs(nodal_expression))

# now write the entity wise norm inf scalar value for checking to the PRESSURE
Kratos.Expression.VariableExpressionIO.Write(norm_inf_nodal_expression, Kratos.PRESSURE, False)

# now printing
for node in model_part.Nodes:
    velocity = node.GetValue(Kratos.VELOCITY)
    pressure = node.GetValue(Kratos.PRESSURE)
    print(f"node_id: {node.Id}, velocity=[{velocity[0]}, {velocity[1]}, {velocity[2]}], pressure = {pressure}")
```

Expected output:
```bash
node_id: 1, velocity=[-1.0, -2.0, -3.0], pressure = 3.0
node_id: 2, velocity=[-4.0, -5.0, -6.0], pressure = 6.0
node_id: 3, velocity=[-7.0, -8.0, -9.0], pressure = 9.0
 |  /           |                  
 ' /   __| _` | __|  _ \   __|    
 . \  |   (   | |   (   |\__ \  
_|\_\_|  \__,_|\__|\___/ ____/
           Multi-Physics 9.4."3"-docs/expression_documentation-6de5f1a499-Release-x86_64
           Compiled for GNU/Linux and Python3.11 with GCC-13.2
Compiled with threading and MPI support.
Maximum number of threads: 30.

> Running without MPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 |  /           |                  
 ' /   __| _` | __|  _ \   __|    
 . \  |   (   | |   (   |\__ \  
_|\_\_|  \__,_|\__|\___/ ____/
           Multi-Physics 9.4."3"-docs/expression_documentation-6de5f1a499-Release-x86_64
           Compiled for GNU/Linux and Python3.11 with GCC-13.2
Compiled with threading and MPI support.
Maximum number of threads: 30.
Running without MPI.
node_id: 1, velocity=[-1.0, -2.0, -3.0], pressure = 3.0
node_id: 2, velocity=[-4.0, -5.0, -6.0], pressure = 6.0
node_id: 3, velocity=[-7.0, -8.0, -9.0], pressure = 9.0
```

Author: fixed
